Getting Started

Prepare your input data:

The NeXus platform requires a CSV file as the input data source.

The file must contain a mandatory 'genes' column, which represents the gene information associated with the network pharmacology analysis.

Optionally, the file may also contain 'compounds_list' and 'plants_list' columns, which provide additional context for the relationships between genes, compounds, and plants.
Ensure that your input data is clean and formatted correctly.

CSV File Format
The input CSV file for the NeXus platform should have the following format:
compounds_list; plants_list; genes

The 'genes' column is mandatory and must contain the gene information associated with the network pharmacology analysis.
The 'compounds_list' and 'plants_list' columns are optional, but including them will provide additional context and enable more comprehensive analysis.
Each row in the CSV file represents a relationship between a compound, a plant, and one or more genes.
If a cell in the 'compounds_list' or 'plants_list' column is empty, it means that the corresponding gene is not associated with any compound or plant.
Similarly, if a gene is not associated with any compounds or plants, it will have empty cells in the 'compounds_list' and 'plants_list' columns.



Launch the NeXus platform:

  Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the NeXus platform directory.
  Run the following command to start the analysis:

      $ python nexus_v1.py

Provide the input file path:

    When prompted, enter the path to your input CSV file.
    If you don't provide a path, the platform will use a default file named 'input.csv' located in the same directory.

Follow the analysis workflow:

    The NeXus platform will guide you through the various stages of the analysis, including network construction, metrics calculation, enrichment analysis, and visualization.
    The platform will provide progress updates and instructions throughout the process.




Key Features

Automated Network Construction:

NeXus automatically constructs a network graph from the input data, representing the relationships between genes, compounds, and plants.
The platform handles the creation of nodes and edges based on the available data columns.


Network Metrics Calculation:

NeXus calculates a comprehensive suite of network metrics, including basic, centrality, and community-related measures.
These metrics provide insights into the structure and dynamics of the biological network.


Enrichment Analysis:

The platform integrates advanced enrichment analysis capabilities, leveraging databases of biological pathways and gene ontologies.
NeXus identifies the significant associations between the network elements and established functional processes.

Visualization and Reporting:

NeXus generates a suite of publication-quality visualizations, including network plots, centrality maps, and enrichment analysis figures.
The platform consolidates the analysis findings into a comprehensive Markdown-formatted report, facilitating the integration of the results into scientific publications and presentations.




Advanced Features

Grouped Enrichment Analysis:

For datasets with 'compounds_list' and 'plants_list' columns, NeXus can perform enrichment analysis separately for each plant and compound.
This feature enables researchers to identify the specific biological relevance of individual network elements.


Batch Processing:

The platform supports the ability to analyze multiple input files in a batch, streamlining the workflow for researchers with large datasets.


Troubleshooting and Support
If you encounter any issues or have questions about using the NeXus platform, please refer to the following resources:

Documentation: Review the Installation Guide and User Manual for detailed instructions and guidance.

GitHub Repository: Check the project's GitHub repository for the latest updates, bug fixes, and community discussions.

Contact the Development Team: For any specific questions or support requests, you can reach out to the NeXus development team at salah_alsh@outlook.com.

